---
layout: post
title:  "My experience in CHEM 1410"
author: "Alex Suh"
date:   2021-11-25
date_written: "November 25th, 2021"
---
## And introduction and my challenge
Hi, everyone! I’m Alex - a current first-year (as of November 2021) and now almost a “graduate” of CHEM 1410! My first semester here has been exciting albeit somewhat challenging, but I’ve learned so much, and I can’t wait to apply my knowledge in future courses! Now onto an overview of CHEM 1410 - you’ll find that CHEM 1410 is structured much differently than typical courses you may have taken in high school. It is both self- and group-driven, and one thing you’ll learn is to work more effectively in independent and small-group settings, where you’ll find you’re spending most of your time. Lectures are driven more towards _reviewing_ content than introducing it for the first time, and on that note, _make sure you understand the textbook reading as completely as possible before you come to lecture_! This was something that was much different than I was used to in high school, and it may take time to adapt. During some of my "chem reading" sessions  (especially towards the beginning and end of the semester), I had to struggle through chapters with dense concepts and a plethora of foreign vocabulary that perplexed me. But it was that very struggle that ensured that I understood the material, and you'll certainly come out all the more knowledgeable from it. Because your chemistry professor will have very little time to teach you a lot of content, they'll expect that you can learn the majority of the textbook material on your own so that they can focus on harder, more involved concepts. You’ll find that your independent study is going to have far more use to you _before_ lecture and expos, where you’ll spend a lot of time delving into more specific topics related to what you’ve learned. (A piece of helpful advice: make sure to do every single textbook problem, and focus on the short answer ones! Those are typically the ones that make you think the most and require you to bring together key concepts to form a cohesive conclusion. Remember -- active learning always trumps passive learning!!) On that note, expos are some of the best times to _reinforce_ your learning with fellow students, where you’ll get to discuss and debate challenging problems together, all while cumulatively bringing together material from all the previous units. Make sure you come prepared and open to discussion!

## A connection to life
To that end, expos are really a team-building exercise as much as they are times to come together and discuss the material. It’s incredibly important to get a good head start on working together with your group and practicing good communication during expos since failing to do so will certainly come back to bite during the group portion of exams. Yes, you heard that right -- there is a group portion to chemistry 1410 exams. You'll have to work with your expo team members to solve grueling multiple-choice problems together, and developing a good team dynamic with the rest of our group throughout the semester is absolutely imperative to doing well on these exams. Of course, this isn't something unique to CHEM 1410. Developing strong collaboration skills will no doubt give you an advantage in many of your classes and even in your future careers, so take the time now to practice them! Talk a lot about difficult problems during expo early, and try not to be too shy! Something our group found particularly challenging in that regard was managing group work amid a variety of unexpected circumstances, such as a group member contracting coronavirus and other group members getting sick. In these cases, like before, the best solution is _always_ to employ good communication: if you know you’re going to be out of class, let your group members know, and if you don’t see them in class, make sure to reach out and check that they’re doing ok! Oftentimes, your group members might be able to join virtually (over a Zoom meeting, for instance) and contribute to your group’s efforts regardless of their physical presence.

## A piece of advice
One piece of advice: do _not_ procrastinate, particularly on assignments such as the portfolios that are cumulative and not necessarily submitted until exams! It’s very easy to get behind in independently-driven courses like these, particularly if you have to miss lecture or expo sections because of unforeseen circumstances. These assignments (once again, I'm particularly referring to the portfolios) are also fantastic for reviewing material, provided that you add to them when the concepts are still fresh in your mind. Rushing through them a few hours before the deadline will do much less for you and leave you stressed and anxious about the upcoming exam. It is absolutely crucial that you take care of as many assignments as you can early on, and to be entirely honest, most assignments don’t take any longer than an hour or two at most. I’ve had my fair share of, “oh no! I think I forgot to do my LBLA and it’s due in 30 minutes” moments, and trust me when I say that you do not want to be in that position. (Another piece of personal advice: get in the habit of using a planner, scheduling app, or some other form of a calendar early on. With the number of assignments, events, and other activities that you'll have, remembering when what is due/happening is incredibly important. That is _not_ to say, however, that you should leave things until right before they are due on your calendar, but to be cognizant of them and leave plenty of time to complete them well before the deadline). That extends to much of what you’ll do throughout college, so generally practicing good time management and being top of your work will do you wonders. Good luck with everything and I hope you’re looking forward to a great experience in CHEM 1410!