---
layout: post
title:  "A blueprint to chemistry 1410"
author: "Tony Matar"
date:   2021-11-21
date_written: "November 21st, 2021"
---
Something future students will learn in this course is the concept of atomic orbitals. This concept is used to describe the locations of electron densities in an atom/molecule, along with their energies. Personally, I took an honors chemistry class in sophomore year of high school and, frankly, did not learn anything. This being the first unit, I definitely had the most trouble with it. There’s a certain aspect of studying chemistry that you are forced to learn in this course if you didn’t in highschool, and it starts with this unit. Almost everything I thought I knew about chemistry was wrong or extremely surface level, so I was forced to almost forget everything and start over. Every other word in this chapter seemed unfamiliar to me and because the reading was assigned before the lecture, it felt as though I was insanely behind everyone else. However, after attending the lecture and taking detailed notes, I felt slightly better, and was even more relieved during  the expo after getting help from classmates and TAs. As abstract and complicated this first unit may seem, it is just new. With this new material, I had to rethink how I thought about chemistry. I could no longer see it as a random set of lines, letters, and shapes, but as a way of understanding the world. A few youtube videos later, I felt very confident in my ability to learn the material in this course. It is extremely important that, if you are in a similar situation as I was, you come to this realization early. This first unit is the basis of the entire course. Every other concept taught in this class relates back to orbitals and how electrons interact because of them. 


Much of the content taught is directly applicable to almost everything around us. From the intermolecular interactions that take place when soap removes dirt from your hands to the excitation and relaxation of electrons that occur in molecules that allow us to see color, the basic chemistry introduced to you will help you better understand the world around you. Once you are able to understand and appreciate this, learning and mastering the content becomes much easier. Studying and taking notes transforms from a tedious task you must complete to maintain your GPA to an enlightening experience that will feed your curiosity. A specific aspect of this realization that resonated with me was that many abstract concepts, including those outside of chemistry, may only be as abstract as you make them. After a couple weeks in this course, being forced to create material ideas from abstract concepts, I realized the same could be done in any one of my classes. It’s important to really think about why you are being taught the material you are. Chances are, it isn’t just useless abstract knowledge, but specialized information. Your job is to find what this information relates to. Once you’ve accomplished this, your classes will become 10 times easier. 

A piece of advice I have for future chemistry students is to ask questions. I was definitely not at the top of my class when it came to background knowledge in chemistry, so I was confused for much of the time when material was first introduced. However, there were so many resources that I had at my disposal to ask for help. Office hours were very convenient, all of the TA’s were extremely knowledgeable and knew how to explain a concept when the textbook or lecture didn’t make sense, and friends and group members were always happy to help. I took advantage of these resources and I urge you to do the same. There is no shame in being confused, as this class is meant for learning, not practicing already mastered material. 
