---
layout: post
title:  "What I took away from CHEM 1410"
author: "Tai Higgs"
date:   2021-12-2
date_written: "December 4th, 2021"
---
## What I've learned, my challenge, and connecting CHEM 1410 to life
Hello! My name is Cetai, but I like to go by Tai for short. This past semester I had the privilege of taking Chem 1410 with group 20, the Polar Bears. I think one of the most important concepts I learned this semester wasn't a specific topic or lesson, but yet a life concept of teamwork and asking for help. Of course, through this course I was able to learn about atomic orbitals down to the smallest details and more things like energy transfer, but yet it was teamwork and asking for help that got me through this course. During the first few weeks of the semester, things ran very smoothly, attending class every day and doing well on work with the group. Then, out of nowhere, I hit a very long hard stretch of sickness injury that kept me out of class for weeks. From a severe cold that started the skid out, to two achilles injuries preventing me from walking, to a severe case of the flu that kept me down for 2 weeks, life hit me HARD. Thankfully though, I had one of the best groups of teammates in the entire class that helped me get through it. One thing I always had trouble with is asking for help when needed. It wasn't long before I realized that even without the ailments, you HAVE to ask for help in this class when you need it. The TA’s and Professor really made sure I was okay with the material from each unit as I was back home. The team also worked very well with each other and even when someone went down or was absent we were able to keep working and doing well. On tests, we developed great strategies for working together on the group portion that helped us improve and get better grades as the semester progressed.  Teamwork is a necessity to do well in this class because while it is possible to do well on your own, it is much easier to learn and grow with your team. These two concepts not only work for Chem1410,  but they work for everyday life. When working at a  job that requires group work, teamwork is going to be needed in order to succeed. In a job you also might encounter some difficulties in which you would have to ask for help. If you don't have teamwork in a group-oriented job, you risk losing your position in your job and getting fired. Teamwork and Asking for help aren't just classroom concepts but life principles.  

## My advice
My advice for future Chem students is to set yourself up for success. You can do this with little things like turning in an assignment early, or studying throughout the week, or even going to TA study sessions and asking questions during lectures and expos. Always take advantage of extra credit assignments and help desk hours as well, as these will also give you an edge in Chem 1410. All of these simple things alongside working well with your team and asking for help will help future students to succeed in this class.