---
layout: post
title:  "What CHEM 1410 was like for me"
author: "April Carter"
date_written:   "November 19th, 2021"
---
## My challenge
Time management is a skill that future CHEM 1410 students will learn. As a major challenge area for our group, we really had to work on time management for the group portion of exams. We were inefficient on the first exam and ended up staying past the end of class to finish. We spent too much time discussing each problem and explaining the answers we already felt confident on. Without knowing the circumstances involved in our group taking the test together, we underestimated the time needed to figure out and explain the answers we initially disagreed on. To solve this problem, we made sure to come very prepared for the next exam with answers we were confident on and ones we wanted to discuss more. So, we redesigned our test-taking strategy, entering all of our confident answers first with simple straightforward reasoning. This meant we could save much more time for the problems we found harder. Once we had most of the problems out of the way, we could assess how much time was left for discussion on the remaining problems, and use that awareness to plan efficiently. Time management is very important for this class during exams and regular group work. Apart from just finishing the problems, students should be fully understanding the material through sufficient discussion. 

## A connection to life
Time management is very applicable to real-life situations. When faced with a change it is important to assess how much time is needed and develop a strategy to make it happen to be successful. Time management is a skill used constantly in and out of the classroom. It will become increasingly important as students become more involved in various organizations, get jobs and internships, or start taking harder classes. Efficient scheduling can only be done through rational assessment of the tasks at hand, and how much time is needed to complete them. Looking forward, this skill will be crucial in future careers. Being able to get everything done in a timely manner, even with others or new situations, is essential. When there are others depending on your work, scheduling and work efficiency are not something to be taken lightly. 

## A piece of advice
Make sure to participate! Even when you don't fully understand a concept, ask questions. Never be afraid to participate, because that engagement will end up being extremely beneficial. Collaboration in this class, and throughout your entire life, should never be something to shy away from. The connections you make and the deeper understanding of concepts you receive from participating in expo will never be something you regret. Class can be an exciting and educational experience if you work to make it one. Skipping or doing the work independently will only limit your own progress in the class because you will miss out on the discussion and questioning that pushes active learners further.  
